Create convnext.mdx (#5)
sezan92/computer-vision-course: course/2 Neural Network Architectures/2.1 Convolutional Neural Networks/2.1.2 Common Pre-Trained Models/convnext.mdx

# ConvNext - A ConvNet for the 2020s (2022)

## Introduction

> The ConvNext architecture was developed in 2022 by researchers from Facebook AI Research (Zhuang Liu, Hanzi Mao, Chao-Yuan Wu, Christoph Feichtenhofer, Trevor Darrell, and Saining Xie). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The paper "A ConvNet for the 2020s" proposed the ConvNext architecture in 2022 by a team of researchers from Facebook AI Research, including Zhuang Liu, Hanzi Mao, Chao-Yuan Wu, Christoph Feichtenhofer, Trevor Darrell, and Saining Xie.
```

> Recently, with the breakthrough of Visual Transformers (ViTs), it quickly superceded pure ConvNet models as the new state-of-the-art for Image Recognition.

Reviewer 2: A line can be added to explain that "ConvNeXt is nothing more than the modernization of a standard ResNet toward the design of a vision transformer, while also improving several performance differences along the way. The result of this investigation is the ConvNeXt family of pure ConvNet models."

> Recently, with the breakthrough of Visual Transformers (ViTs), it quickly superceded pure ConvNet models as the new state-of-the-art for Image Recognition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recently, the breakthrough of Visual Transformers (ViTs) quickly superseded pure ConvNet models as the new state-of-the-art for image recognition.
```

> ConvNext represents a notable advancement in pure convolution models, achieved by incorporating training techniques inspired by ViTs, achieving results on par with ViTs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ConvNext represents a significant improvement to pure convolution models by incorporating techniques inspired by ViTs and achieving results comparable to ViTs in terms of accuracy and scalability.
```

## Key Improvements

> ConvNext starts from a regular ResNet (ResNet-50/200) and gradually modernize and modify the architecture to closely imitate the hierarchical structure of Vision Transformers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ConvNext starts with a regular ResNet (ResNet-50/200) and gradually modernizes and modifies the architecture to closely imitate the hierarchical structure of Vision Transformers.
```

The key improvements are:
- Training Techniques
- Macro Design
- ResNeXt-ify
- Inverted Bottleneck
- Large Kernel Sizes
- Micro Design
We will go through each of the key improvements briefly.

## Training Techniques
Before changing the design of the architecture, having a good training procedure will significantly affect the performance.
ConvNext applies training techniques close to DeiT and Swin Transformers which are:
- Extended epochs from the original 90 epochs to 300 epochs
- AdamW optimizer
- Data augmentation techniques such as Mixup, Cutmix, RandAugment, Random Erasing
- Regularization schemes including Stochastic Depth and Label Smoothing

> This alone increased ResNet-50 performance from 76.1% to 78.8%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This alone increased ResNet-50's performance from 76.1% to 78.8%.
```
